Solidart v3: Refactor v3 core API and align ecosystem packages (#167)
nank1ro/solidart: docs-v2/src/content/docs/flutter/signal_builder.mdx

  order: 1
---

> A magic widget builder that automatically rebuilds every time a signal used inside its builder changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A magic widget builder that automatically rebuilds every time signals used inside its builder change.
```

}
```

<Aside type="caution">
By default, if no __active__ signals are detected inside the builder method, an assertion error will be thrown in debug mode.
This is to help catch mistakes where you might have forgotten to use an __active__ signal inside the builder.

> There may be cases where you want to disable this behavior, for example if you want it to build with the latest value of a disposed signal, in that case you can use `SolidartConfig.assertSignalBuilderWithoutDependencies = false` before `runApp`.

Reviewer: Why do you removed the assert?
It was very convenient to discover signals that are incorrectly disposed (when autoDispose is true)

Author: Because I fixed the manual dispose behavior, for example, if a SignalBuilder depends on a Signal, and `a.dispose()` is called, the relationship between SignalBuilder and `a` is broken. At this point, `a` cannot be set to a new value. Furthermore, since `a` and SignalBuilder are no longer dependent after dispose, if `a` continues to be consumed by other subscribers without being disposed to update its value, the SignalBuilder will not be triggered.

The situation you encountered before was simply a side effect caused by an implementation error in the automatic destruction mechanism.

Author: Rewritten and added back
